# Contributing

This page explains how you can contribute to the PostgreSQL
translation effort.

## Newcomers

If you are new, please check on the [[status]] page whether your
language is already being worked on.  If so, look into the translation
files near the top to find out where to contact the last translator or
the translation team.  Please contact them about contributing.  If the
last translator cannot be reached or if it has been a long time since
the last update to the file, you can just take over.  But remember
that communicating first avoids duplicate work later.
      
In any case, read the [[Howto]] about how to go about filling in the
translations.

To submit new or updated translation files, submit them to the [Patch
Tracker](http://pgfoundry.org/tracker/?atid=320&amp;group_id=1000064).
One of the registered developers will install your file into the
source code repository.  Make sure you specify which branch your file
is for (see below about branches).

## Registered Developers

People who have contributed for a while will be registered as
developers and are able to commit their files into the source code
repository by themselves.

## Release Management

You can work in several branches.  There is a current branch and
several back branches.

The back branches belong to past releases of PostgreSQL.  It is
usually a good idea to finish translations for the recent back
branches first, because those are the ones that people currently use.
When a new back branch release is made (something like 8.0.5 or
8.1.1), updated translations will be included.

By contrast, the current branch is often under heavy development,
meaning that error messages change, and translation work done today
might become obsolete tomorrow.  Therefore, translations in the
current branch should normally only be done during the beta phase or
after a release if no new branch for the development release has been
made yet.  (The [[status]] page informs about the status of the
branches.)

Information about release schedules and so on will also be posted to
the mailing list <pgtranslation-translators@pgfoundry.org> (see
[mailing lists](http://pgfoundry.org/mail/?group_id=1000064)), which
you are encouraged to read.
