# Howto

Here is how to get set up for translation work.  It is assumed here
that you already know your way around gettext message catalogs.  If
you're new to this, read the chapter on NLS in the PostgreSQL
Documentation.

## Translating

1. To continue an existing translation, download a new PO file by
   following the links in the [[status]] tables.  Fill in the file as
   much as you want.

2. To start a new translation, download a POT file by clicking on one
   of the catalog names in the left column of the [[status]] tables.
   First, fill in all the fields in the header and remove the fuzzy
   flag.  Particularly, the character set information is very
   important and must not be left out!  Then fill in the rest of the
   file as much as you want.

3. When you are done editing, *check the file* for errors.  If you're
   using the Emacs PO mode, press V.  From the command line, run
   `msgfmt -o /dev/null -v -c yourfile.po`.  Or copy the file into the
   main PostgreSQL source tree and run `gmake maintainer-check-po`.
   If you don't do this, your file might contain bugs that cause
   program crashes, which will quickly disenchant users from
   PostgreSQL and internationalized software in general.

4. Submit the resulting file to the [Patch
   Tracker](http://pgfoundry.org/tracker/?atid=320&amp;group_id=1000064).
   Please do not send patches; send the whole file.  If you're
   concerned that the file is too big, run it through a compression
   program.  Also, please send each PO file as a separate attachment;
   no tar or zip archives please.  Both of these rules make it easier
   for the person installing your files.

## Tools

Please don't edit the PO files with a plain text editor.  You're
making your life unnecessarily hard.  There are several tools that
make editing PO files really easy.

- GNU Emacs and XEmacs have PO editing modes.

- [KBabel](http://i18n.kde.org/tools/kbabel/) is for those who like
  KDE-based tools.

- [poEdit](http://poedit.sourceforge.net) is yet another tool, which
  even works under Windows.

## Tips

Check out the home of the [GNU Translation
Project](http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/contrib/po/HTML/).  There you can
find out about mailing lists, web sites, and other resources for
translation efforts to your language.  Some of these resources are
GNU-oriented, but others are not.
